---
layout: post
title: The Cross
category: sermon2013subang
tags: [holycommunion,footwashing,reflection]
hymns: []
---
-The cross has its special meaning.

-Jn 3 Nicodemus is a Pharisee and ruler of the law. He knew Jesus is not a normal person and was humble to seek Jesus to learn from him.

-Jn 3:13-15 How can a man who is on earth and is still in heaven? Jesus who is God himself through virgin Mary was born on earth to fulfill a mission. 

-Num 21:4-9 God gave them a method and ask Moses to make a fiery serpent on the pole and those who were bitten by the poisonous snake need to look at the serpent on the pole will be able to live again. 

-Today, the son of man, Jesus is lifted on the pole and those who wants to be save and believe in Jesus will receive eternal life.

-For our sake, he shed his precious blood, he wore a thorn of cross and was nailed on the cross. 

-Men who are sinners should be the one who should be nailed on the cross. Everyone is not perfect. 

-We need Jesus to save us. Only the Lord Jesus who has no sin is able to save the sinners of the world.

-What does the cross means to you? 

-Luke 14:27 Jesus Christ said, “if you cannot bear the cross you cannot be my disciples”  During this time great multitudes accompanied him. 

-The cross was a symbol of punishment for criminals then.

-However when Jesus was nailed on the cross, only through his death, he opened the path of salvation for all sinners. 

-When Peter tried to stop Jesus, Jesus said “Go behind me Satan”. This is because Peter did not understand the will of God.

-Only after Jesus’ death, the disciples understood the meaning of cross. Most of the disciples were martyred and died a cruel death for Jesus.

-Jesus Christ sacrifice, his love and his death on the cross for all sinners.

-We need to bear the cross of Jesus. 

-1Cor 11:26. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup you proclaim the lord’s death until he comes.

-Do we proclaim the Lord’s death? What is the meaning of Holy communion to us? 

-Do we tell other people that Jesus loves us and died for us? Do we preach about Jesus’ love to all sinners and share with them the special meaning of the cross to all. 

-Let us remember Jesus’ death, his love and the special meaning of the cross of salvation for sinners and for all of us. May the cross be alive in our hearts day after day until his second coming.


Holy communion
1 Cor 11:28 When we partake the Holy Communion is to remember the death of Jesus. 

-Partaking the holy communion can be a blessing or a curse.

-If we take it correctly we will receive blessings

-Jn 6:54 If we eat the flesh and drinks my flesh have eternal life. This has something to do with our eternal life.

-It is a promise given by jesus as God will raise him up in the last days.

-As long as you do not commit a mortal sin and your conscience does not prick you, you should take the holy communion.

-However if you have commit a mortal sin and your conscience forbid you, you should refrain from taking the holy communion. 

-Those who have not been baptized and is still not the part of Jesus, please at this moment refrain from taking the Holy Communion.


Feet Washing
Jn 13:3-10 This happen the night before Jesus was captured. Jesus knows his time is near. 

-Jesus rose from supper laid aside his garments and girded himself with a towel and poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples’ feet. This action is an act of a servant.

-To Peter, he is not worthy of Jesus to wash his feet. Peter did not want Jesus to wash his feet. 

-However Jesus replied to him, “If I do not wash you, you have no part in me.”  

-Peter immediately replied, “Lord not only my feet, but also my hands and my head”. 

-Feet washing cannot be separated from baptism. After baptism, your sins have been cleansed and once your feet has been washed we will have a part in Jesus.

-Jn 13:14-15 Jesus said, “If you call me Teacher and lord, then you also ought to wash one another’s feet for I have given you an example you also should do as I have done to you”. 

-This feet washing is a sacrament and is important to be part of Jesus and is pertaining to salvation. 

-As such we must conduct feet washing as this is part of salvation. 

-The teachings of feet washing is that once you have been baptized you must walk in the way of Jesus Christ. 

-You must walk in a holy life and lead a life that is pleasing to God.

-As parents, we have the responsibility to lead the child in the Lord as the baby is now the child of God after baptism. 

Teachings to Newly Baptized

Acts 15:28-29 Since this is a baby, it is the responsibility of the parents to ensure this is done. 
1)	Abstain from idols
2)	Abstain from unchastity
3)	Abstatin from what is strangled and from blood
4)	To uphold all the teachings of the bible and God.




----
****
