---
layout: post
title: Let Go
category: sermon2017subang
tags: [entrust,worry,godisupthere]
hymns: [339,195]
---
-If man is not able to let go, then life will be bitter. Letting go is not something easy to do. Some is able to let go easily but some is unwilling to do so. 
-Why is unwilling and can’t let go. They don’t have the wisdom to let go. You need to have the courage to let go. 
-What do we need to let go of? 

1) Let go of the burdens that we carry
-Heb 12:1 The bible encourages us how to run the heavenly road. We should let aside every weight and sin which clings so closely and let us run with endurance the race that is set. 

-Here the bible encourages us that we need to let go every weight,  if we want to run the heavenly race.

- Witnessing
A member had a dream that many people walk the heavenly path. Many members some of them carrying burdens. Some had black packages. Then along the road, the member saw Satan throwing black packages . Each time the member saw the black package and began to pick up the black package. When the devil saw this, there was a crafty smile. As the burden grew heavier, the journey began to be tiring and harder to go on.
The Lord Jesus is reminding us why the heavenly journey is so difficult to run as we are carrying every burden of the world. Jesus Christ wants to remind us to lay aside our weight and to pass to Jesus. 

-Mt 11:28-30 Jesus said, “Come to me all who labour and are heavy laden and I will give you rest” 

-Today all of us have our own burdens to bear. Jesus asked us to pass the burden to Jesus for Jesus is gentle and lowly in 
heart. 

-The secret is to be gentle and humble in our hearts and we will find rest in our souls. 

-There was an elderly person was carrying a heavy baggage. When the ship came, some will sit down and rest. However the elderly person was still standing carrying heavy baggage in the ship as he was worried that the ship will sink. 
-Today are we not like this elderly man? We have many things that is out of our control and these unexpected incidents becomes our burdens. Do we still carry these burdens? Or do we pass these burdens to Jesus Christ.  

-1 pet 5:7 Cast all your cares upon him for he cares for you. 

-We have to let go of our burdens and cares as Jesus cares for us. 

2) We have to let go of this world. 
Phil 3: 7-8 But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed I count everyting as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus Christ. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. 

-Paul pursued the best knowledge and was under study a
 great  teacher. He had the power to even hold Christians 
captives. Ever since knowing Christ Paul found all the things of the world as rubbish. 

-We are only living in the world temporary waiting for Jesus coming. A person who follows the Lord, he has to let go of the world. 

-2 Tim 4:10 For Demas in love with this present world, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonica”. 

-Paul was indeed sad. Demas was once a fervent follower and worker but now he had left because he loved the world. To Thessalonica which was a big city then. 
-He once left the world to serve God but at the end, he left the holy work and went back to the world for he had never let go of the world. He still loved the world. 
-A monkey who is not willing to let go of the fruit in a trap will continue to be trapped and caught in the end. 
-Today in this world we need to let go of the world. 

3) We need to let go of the critics 
As we live, we face many criticisms. Even Jesus Christ a perfect and righteous, full of kindness and love still received criticisms and betrayal. 
-If Jesus who is perfect received criticisms, what more we who are not perfect should let go off the criticisms that we received. 
-1 Cor 4:5 Today when we hear someone talking about us we take this so seriously. Paul himself said this should be a small thing. Paul encourages us, “not to pronounce judgment before time before the lord comes who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness. Each one will receive his commendation from God”. 

-We should not take criticisms at heart but we should let go of every criticisms received. Let God be the judge and not us to pronounce judgment. 

-A teacher told a student, “ if someone gives you rubbish, you don’t accept it or just throw it away”. Similarly if someone criticizes you, this is what you should do. Don’t accept or just throw it away. 

- A member did not go to church because a member said something wrong that hurt him. Because of the person, he did not go to church for 10 years. Even Jesus he was willing to let go. In the end he was the one who suffered emotionally as well as spiritually. 

4) You will have to let go even though you don’t want to let go. 
Ecc 9: 5-6 For the living know that they will die but the dead know nothing, and they have no more reward for the memory of them is forgotten. Their love and their hate and their envy have already perished ad forever they have no more share in all that is done under the sun. 

-In the end when we die, we will need to let go. As the baby they clench their fist but when a person dies, his fist will be loosened. 

-Why do we only let go when we are about to die? Why can’t 
we let go when we are living. 
Ecc 5:15-16  As he came from his mother’s womb he shall go again naked as he came and shall take nothing for his toil that he may carry away in his hand. This is also a grievous evil just as he came so shall he go and what gain is there to him who toils for the wind? 

-So while we are living, let us Let go of the conflicts we have, the anger, the hurt, the stubbornness, the hate etc  that will lead you, family and those around you to suffer. 
-Since you have to let go, let go now. 

Jesus wants us to lead a happy and joyous life. When we walk the heavenly journey, we need to ask God and the spirit to give us the strength and wisdom to let go. 

All glory to God. 


-




----
****
