---
layout: post
title: Joshua Lesson 3 - God in the Book of Joshua (1)
category: sermon2020singapore
tags: [reflection,joshua,courage,leadership,canaan,israelites,salvation,deliverance,faith,inheritance,caleb]
hymns: [26,174]
speaker: prchinaunquek
---
The book of Joshua is written from the perspective of a prophet. From the perspective of a judge, history explains the words of God to us. We should look at the book of Joshua from the eyes of a judge to understand what kind of God we worship. 

Joshua 1:1-5  
These verses show us that God is a God who knows how to comfort men. Moses died. The only person able to speak to God face to face is no longer around. They lose a pillar of support, to the extent their hearts are uneasy. They wonder if Joshua will be able to undertake the great task of Moses to bring them into the land of Canaan. Joshua had fear and uneasiness in his heart too. He has lost the person who has been guiding him and who was a teacher to him. How was he able to accomplish the task of subduing the land of Canaan? God knew the fear in Joshua’s heart, so He encouraged Joshua to stand firm, and to be strong and courageous. God encouraged Joshua to be strong and of good courage five times. What words does the Lord say for Joshua to have the courage to stand firm? *“As I was with Moses, so I will be with you.”* When God appeared to Moses and told him he was to lead the people out of Egypt, Moses was in fear and kept declining. He told God, “Who am I that I can face Pharaoh? How am I able to bring the people of Israel out of Egypt?” God replied, “I will be with you.” Now God had chosen Joshua to conquer Canaan. Joshua feared. God said the same words, *“I will be with you. Although Moses is dead, I am still alive. Moses cannot be with you anymore but I will be with you.”* When God is with a person, He gives him the courage to stand up again. Not just a slogan or words spoken to comfort yourself, God’s abidance is something true and there’s history as evidence. Biblical history affirms that God is one who abides with us. 

In Genesis we see how God chose Abraham and said He would give this land to his descendants. We see how God was with a Thean and brought him out of the land of Ur. In Exodus we see how God appeared to Moses and instructed him to bring the people out of Egypt. God was always with Moses, guiding him to leave Egypt and enter Canaan. In the book of Joshua, God said to Joshua he was to lead the people and attack the inhabitants of Canaan. “As I was with Moses so I will be with you.” Joshua was able to observe how God was with Moses with his own eyes. After leaving the land of Egypt, in the period of 40 years, he saw with his own eyes how God was with Moses and how because of that Moses was able to perform great signs and wonders. God doesn’t just live in the past, He exists in every period of time. He was in the past, in the present and will last till forever. Just like the chorus of hymn 478 says, “Because He lives, I can face tomorrow. Because He lives, all fear is gone. Because I know He holds the future. And life is worth the living just because He lives.” This hymn brings us great comfort and hope. Even if the surroundings brings us great sorrows and troubles; perhaps those we love have passed. We feel like orphans. But because God lives, He abides with us. 

John 14:16-18  
In the Old Testament, we see how God spoke to Joshua I won’t leave you or cast you aside. In the New Testament, God appears in the flesh and said to His children I won’t leave you as orphans. I will come to you. Jesus has already ascended right heaven, how will He come to us? He abides with us through the promised Holy Spirit. People of the world don’t know who the Holy Spirit is, but we understand the Holy Spirit is the spirit of the Lord. When we see the Holy Spirit abiding with us, we know Jesus Christ is abiding with us. We hence don’t need to be fearful or without hope. We may feel lonely as a person, but Jesus won’t leave us as orphans. He will be with us. Although we don’t see Him, He sees us and wants to dwell in us. We must believe in, trust in Him, have courage and don’t fear. Jesus Christ has said before He will be with us. Never forget Jesus will not leave us as orphans. 

#God is one who comforts people. In like manner, He instructs us to show concern for each other.#

2 Cor 7:6  
Paul says God comforts the downcast. Paul didn’t say God appeared to comfort them, rather they were comforted by the coming of Titus. When we come to know that there’s someone who’s frightened or downcast, we ought to encourage and comfort them, because our God is one who comforts people. One way He does so is by us comforting someone. 

2 Cor 1:3  
*God of all comfort.* 
Not only does God comfort people, He also blesses us with all kinds of comforts. We have the comfort of the Holy Spirit, comfort of the angels, comfort through the words of God, comfort through the servants of God, comfort from brethren. There’s also a special comfort recorded in v4. We often think suffering is not a wonderful thing. If we don’t think about God, suffering would definitely not be a wonderful thing. But when we think about God, we come to understand suffering has a beautiful will in it. God wants us to experience comfort while going through this suffering, and comfort others with the comfort we received. Sufferings help us to better understand His will. We ask God to help and comfort us so we can overcome difficulties, and in how we are comforted, we comfort and strengthen others who go through the same trouble. Someone who has gone through the same suffering is better positioned to help someone else in that suffering. Because of COVID-19, more pressures worries frustrations. Fears we had residing in our hearts gets manifested. There’s more friction in the family to the extent there’s family violence. Let’s not become angry and disappointed because of this. Instead let’s have mercy and a heart of comfort extend this to others. Pray that God of comfort comforts others. We don’t know when this situation will pass, we don’t know what other burdens and pressures we’ll encounter. The book of Joshua shows that God is a God who comforts people, He'll be with us. Just like how He was with Joshua and never left him. God will also be with us and won’t cast us away. Let’s not be frightened nor disappointed. All the more, increase our trust in God to get through these difficult times. 

Joshua 1:6, 10-11  
God is a trustworthy God. Whatever He promises will be personally brought to pass. God told Joshua that He would let the people inherit the land. When Joshhua was frightened and uncertain, God said that they would certainly receive the land. But we know in the end will come to pass. Even if we encounter unpleasant things in the midst of it, we will still persevere because we know the ending is sure. The person able to bring it to pass is of great power and authority. More power and authority he has, person participating even more confidence. Even though great risk, will be strengthen in heart and persevere. Moses affirmed time and again the people would receive the promised land. Now Moses not with them. Does the guarantee remain? Moses around Joshua boldly courageously affirm this. Moses not around. God affirms The people would receive the land. Affirmation given by God is the greatest. Let’s be mindful what this affirmation is. Is God affirming Joshua as a person or the promises that He made? God seems to say Joshua would be the one to help the people receive the land. Why? Because Joshua greater than Moses? What Moses cannot achieve Joshua can? Through Joshua’s leadership, the people were able to subdue much of the land but when he passed away, much of the land still not conquered. Even though God said through Joshua the people would receive the inheritance, it's not because of the capabilities of Joshua. But this is the promise God made to the people even in the times of their forefathers. What God has promised He will personally bring to pass. God spoke to Joshua you’re old but still much land to subdue. You first divide the land to the people. There’re still enemies and lands to subdue but I’ll help them so that can drive them out. Because this is spoken by God Himself He will surely bring it to pass. Joshua understood this so be no longer thought about whether the people would really receive the land. In his heart he knew when God says it He will bring it to pass. From weakness, he was strengthened. He transformed from one who fights in fear to one who fights with courage. He’s not frightened anymore but strengthened, commanding the people to prepare themselves to cross the Jordan. He was sure the people would receive the land of Canaan because it’s the promise of God.

Joshua 23:14  
The last words of Joshua were to encourage the people of Israel. It wasn’t just to know but to know in all their hearts and all their souls, that not one thing the lord has spoken will fear. Although I am passing away, lots of land to conquer, many enemies still around and battles to be fought, God will surely help us to achieve. Because God is a trustworthy God. Whatever He promises He will bring to pass. 

This is an important message the entire book of Joshua keeps telling us. It’s not for us to see how Joshua and the people subdued the land, but for us to see how God led them Joshua and the people to fight this battle for God’s promise to come to pass. It’s important to see this point, especially for Christians in the True Jesus Church. We believe the True Jesus Church is the church of the Last Days, established by the pouring down of the Holy Spirit. If we can clearly see this, even if we come under attack by others and they try to plant doubts in us, we can be affirmed of the faith and truth in the church. 

People who oppose the True Jesus Church may say these things on the internet. The early workers of the church - Paul Wei was a false prophet because he gave false prophecies. He said at that time that 4-5 years from then the Lord Jesus would come and burn up the place. Barnabas Zhang, false emperor. When in Singapore he became mad, put on imperial robes and had a throne. People mocked and said that the True Jesus Church was established by a false prophet and false emperor. Is this the church that God established? Don’t say other people don’t believe. Some of our own members who hear this have doubts in their hearts and wonder if the True Jesus Church really is the promised Church God wants to establish in the last days. 

From the eyes of men, we can see the foolishness and failures of Paul Wei and Barnabas Zhang. We would lose faith in the church they established. But if we see from the perspective of a prophet, we don’t see the man right before him but the God behind these people. God accomplishes His work through imperfect incomplete people. This would strengthen and affirm your faith. For example, the Davidic kingdom God promised to establish, because God promised and began that, through his seed, a great nation forever will be a kingdom. But the first king of Israel Saul was a mad man filled with the Evil Spirit. Second king killed a man and took his wife. Is the kingdom really the one God wants?   
But through the eyes of the prophet the kingdom of David won’t doubt this is the kingdom God wants to establish. They could see how God is working from the background so this kingdom fulfils His promises. God said David’s kingdom would be the everlasting kingdom. But after David’s kingdom was attacked by Babylon and taken captive, they never rebuilt the kingdom. But people who never doubted the words of God that it came to emptiness. Because they later saw how God led the people out of Babylon able to rebuild the temple. They’re waiting for a Messiah able to establish the kingdom unto everlasting. Looking at the Davidic kingdom through the eyes of prophets, we understand that God brings about His wonderful will through imperfect men. Establishment of True Jesus Church is likewise.   
If we look at the early workers from the eyes of men, we only see their foolishness and failures. But if we see from the eyes of a prophet the entire history of the True Jesus Church, we see how God in the background used imperfect men to accomplish His will. The promise of the Lord is in the last days He’ll pour down His Holy Spirit to establish the church. We may ask: did the Lord actually make such a promise He’ll pour down the Holy Spirit to establish the church? It’s according to the words of prophet Joel. 

Joel 2:28-31  
Before the coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord means before judgement day of the Lord God will pour down the Holy Spirit to His children. When the Holy Spirit came upon men as promised on the day of Pentecost, Peter made reference to Joel 2 say this is the promised Holy Spirit of the Lord. We may then ask: Joel only prophesied the Lord will pour down His spirit. Didn’t say God will pour down His spirit to establish the church? You add on and interpret according to your own manner. 

Joel 2:32  
Where are the people going to go to call on the name of the Lord to be saved? God said in mount Zion and Jerusalem, there’s deliverance. You must go to the temple in Jerusalem, then you can be delivered. But the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed by Romans in AD70. Where can they go to call the name of the Lord to be saved? Jesus long prophesied Jerusalem and the temple would be destroyed. But the Lord will rebuild the temple which is the church. They must now go to the church to call out to the Lord to be saved. Therefore the apostolic church is the church established by the Holy Spirit. It is the only true church that can be saved. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord in the apostolic church which is the true church will be saved. But the apostles didn’t think the Lord was going to come so quickly to judge the world. They thought the last days were just for a short period but it has persisted for a long period. They didn’t have the foresight that the true church they established would be corrupted. Because the teachings propagated by the church widely drifted from teachings of the apostles. Until the Holy Spirit was not with the church. No longer anyone spoke in tongues and prayed in the spirit like the apostles did.   
At that time there were sects with many groups of people. But not one church among these churches were similar to the apostolic church. It seemed to be the case that the true apostolic church doesn’t exist in the world.   
Until around 1600 years later, the promised Holy Spirit of the Lord poured down on earth again. The church of the last days has been established - True Jesus Church. The church during apostolic times appears again as the True Jesus Church. 1517 after Martin Luther reformed the Church, Christians wanted to return to the Bible. Return to the apostolic times. Because they knew that the apostolic church was established by the Lord. It is common understanding that the apostolic church is a church saved by the Lord Jesus. Keep making the call to revive the church in the apostolic times. 400 years of struggling, not one church closely resembles the apostolic church. Until 1917, then the True Jesus Church appeared.   

If we compare all the teachings individual churches preach, teachings of the True Jesus Church are exactly the same as the apostolic church. Truth once and for all delivered from the Lord to the church, no add no subtract. More importantly, the Holy Spirit received by the True Jesus Church Sam was the Holy Spirit poured down during apostolic times. Truly True Jesus Church is the revived apostolic church. Its appearance is not coincidental. Clearly we see God guiding this group of people so they accomplish his will.   
As God has prophesied through prophet Joel. In the last days God will pour out His spirit to establish the church. But didn’t Peter say what Joel prophesied already came to pass? We know this has to do with the former and latter rain. The last days Peter talks about are only the beginning of the last days. From the Bible, the last days are not a short duration, but a long period of time. And the last days are divided into two distinct periods. Beginning of the last days and end times of the last days. Thus we understand the prophecy made by Joel.  
The Holy Spirit promised by the Lord here also divided into two periods of time. In the beginning of the last days, the Holy Spirit Established the apostolic church. This is the former rain. In the end times of the last days, the appearance of the True Jesus Church is called the period of the latter rain.   
#So we see the conclusion- the appearance of the True Jesus Church is not a mere coincidence.# It brings to pass the prophecy by Joel. God through this incomplete imperfect people brings about His perfect will. In the end times of the last days there’ll be the true church similar to the apostolic church so those who call on the name of the Lord will be saved. Although comparing the physical size of the True Jesus Church compared to other churches we seem so small and weak, we find it hard to have breakthroughs when we do evangelistic work. And because of COVID-19, it affects gathering together as service and our preaching work. But we strongly believe the True Jesus Church will accomplish the work of the Lord in the last days. Hymn 174 - the true church is established. 
There are 4 reasons:  
1. Because it’s the will of the Lord  
2. Because it’s the promise of the Lord   
3. Because of the power of the Holy Spirit   
4. Because truth is the foundation   

As we sing this hymn, it reminds us and affirms that the True Jesus Church is established not because of the working of men but because God is in the background working through these people to bring this to pass. The words of Joel tell us we have the abidance of the Holy Spirit as a witness. Testimony of the prophets is also a witness to us. True Jesus Church really true church in the last days those who call on the name of the Lord will be saved. 

It was a daunting task for Joshua to lead people into Canaan fear. But God affirms Joshua and reminds and comforts him, telling him, “you’ll surely receive land of Canaan because it’s my promise”. Joshua was encouraged and emboldened because God would surely bring it to pass. He shouldered the work Moses had passed him.   
Today are we similarly strengthened and comforted to stand up and take on the role True Jesus Church has? God will personally lead us for it to come to pass. We’re just co-workers of God. Just carrying out our duties as children of God, doing the work He has on hand. God knows the heart of men. As long as on the Sabbath Day, we have a willingness and a desire to do His work, He’ll help us to bring the work to pass. So don’t worry about not doing it well but whether we have the heart to do it.   
God saw Joshua’s heart and that's why he chose him to take over Moses. God also sees our heart so He also chose us in various work in the church to carry out his work. Even if we are not selected to be in charge of certain departments in church, we still have responsibility. If God didn’t choose us to be His children, we have no responsibility in His church. But we all have responsibility towards the church of God because he chose us and brought us to the promised true church.   
Even though we have a lot of fears and weaknesses, like Joshua willing to be strengthened, comforted, stand up and take up the work, other humans may not affirm the work. #But God will affirm the work we do because God knows we do it for His sake and not the work of men.#

Let’s not be disappointed or discouraged because men don’t affirm the work we do. Rather be like Joshua because of the affirmation he received from the Lord is strengthened to do the work of the Lord. May the same spirit that stirred up the heart of Joshua stir our hearts up, that we may have the faith to do the work entrusted to us. 

----
****

