---
layout: post
title: Facing the Challenges of our Faith (2)
category: sermon2020vancover
tags: [faith, trials]
hymns: [430,377]
speaker: prtimothyyeung
---
May the peace of our Lord Jesus be with all our brothers and sisters.  This afternoon, I’d like to continue this morning’s topic - Facing the challenges of our faith.  

Acts 14:22 strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and saying, “We must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God.”
Here Paul was encouraging the members because they were facing a lot of difficulties.  And that is a sure thing because if you want to enter into the kingdom of God, you will face a lot of challenges.  

This morning, we mentioned that the first challenge is overcoming our own fear.  If you have a lot of fear, you cannot do a lot of things.  If you have too much fear, it’s like locking yourself up in an invisible room.  Therefore we have to rely on the Lord to overcome our fears.  

The second challenge mentioned about the lack of necessities in our daily life.  No matter where we are and what phase of life we are in, we will face daily difficulties.  But by relying on the Lord Jesus Christ, and using the love of God to help each other, we can overcome this challenge.

The third challenge is to overcome the challenge of sin.  Sin is more frightful than the Covid-19 virus.  Sin is contagious, sin can be hidden and sin can lead to death.  As much as we try to avoid getting sick through the infection of the virus, we have to also avoid getting ourselves caught in sins.  Keep our eyes, keep our ears, keep our mouth and our heart from temptations.

This afternoon we are going to touch on the fourth, fifth and sixth challenges of our faith

## fourth challenge - the challenge of persecution  
Acts 14:19 - 20 Then Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there; and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing him to be dead.  However, when the disciples gathered around him, he rose up and went into the city.  And the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe

When Paul went to Iconium, a lot of Jewish people followed Paul there.  Why did they follow Paul?  Not because they wanted to listen to Paul, but because they wanted to get rid of Paul.  What they knew was to get stones and got everybody to stone Paul.  Such an incident took place even before they came to this place.  

Acts 14:5 And when a violent attempt was made by both the Gentiles and Jews, with their rulers, to abuse and stone them.
We can see that being a Christian in the first century or being a worker of God will subject one to different kinds of treatment including getting stoned.  I don’t know if anyone of you have been hit by a stone.  Maybe when you were small, while we were playing or fooling around and people threw sand or small rocks at us and we got hurt.  But if you were to use a big rock and throw it at someone, you can knock the person down, or even cause him to bleed or even lose his life.  This is not a joke.  That’s why Paul told the members in verse 22 if you want to enter the kingdom of God, you will face a lot of hardships.  That hardship sometimes means persecution, or getting injured or even killed.  This time around, although the situation is not that bad in Canada, if people know that you have been infected by the virus, you will be badly treated.  Not only do they keep their distance, some may even put a blockade at your house using rocks, bricks, or cement to seal your house so that you can’t come out.  Some people even resort to beating up these infected people or give them very bad treatment.  This is indeed very sad, but in some places this has happened.  Let us now look at how people viewed Christians in the first century.  

Acts 24:5 For we have found this man a plague, a creator of dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.

This was how people, - the government or the lawyers - described Paul.  Look at this man, he is like a plague.  I don’t know, if people were to describe you as a plague, how would we feel?  When we mention Covid-19, people get scared because this is just like a plague.  But Paul and the other Christians and the church were regarded as a plague.  It describes two things.  First, Christianity spread very fast.  Liken to the plague that can spread very fast too.  Look at Covid-19 right now, five months ago, nobody knew what it was.  But after December, many people in many countries have been infected.  Many more will be infected and more will die because it is highly contagious and it spreads very fast.  In Mathematics we call this an exponential increase.  From one, it becomes two and then four, eight and the numbers just keep increasing very fast.  In the first century, Christianity spread very fast, just like the plague.  
The second point is that people during that time really hated Christianity.  They viewed it very negatively, that’s why they wanted to get rid of it.  You may wonder why people disliked Christianity.  They knew that Christians thought and behaved differently.  Everybody else worshiped idols but Christians worshiped Jesus, the one true God.  Everybody enjoyed themselves, indulging in sexual immorality but Christians held fast to marriage and emphasized on purity.  Christians didn’t blend into the Roman culture and they carried themselves according to the teachings of the Bible.  So the people disliked them and wanted to get rid of them, especially the Jewish people.  They wanted to kill Paul and tried to kill all the apostles.  That’s why Paul told the followers of Christ, if you want to go to heaven, you better be prepared.  It’s not going to be a smooth ride.  You will face a lot of hardships; and persecution is one of them.  

When I was in Taiwan recently, my family passed through a place called Nan Au in Taiwan.  Every time I passed through Nan Au, I was reminded about the testimony there.  During the Japanese occupation, the government and police really discouraged the people from worshiping Jesus or going to churches.  They arrested Christians and humiliated them.  They even imprisoned them and beat them up.  Our pastors and workers had to secretly sneak through the countryside to get into the church without getting caught.  Otherwise they would be in big trouble.  Our church in Nan Au was not a big congregation.  Most of the other villagers were idol worshipers and they didn’t like our members.  The Japanese government too didn’t allow them to worship.  They were persecuted greatly just like Paul, and the whole village had to flee to save their lives.  And I was told that some members in Nan Au also died for the Lord.  They kept their faith.  Sometimes I think, if we have to go through this, will we still keep our faith?  If I keep this faith, but have to lose my house, lose my job and people would throw stones at my windows and burn my car, will I still say I am a Christian?  We may think this is an unlikely situation, in Canada at least, but the Bible has already warned us.  This is the next step of what will happen to us.  
Matthew 24: 7 - 9 For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.  And there will be famines, pestilences, and earthquakes in various places.  All these are the beginning of sorrows.  Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for My name’s sake.

Jesus has already foretold us about the things that will happen step by step before He comes.  Nation against nation, country against country, people against people.  After Covid-19 has passed, international relationship will be more tense than ever.  We should not worry too much about Covid-19 because it will pass.  But after this, all the countries will be divided into two camps.  They are building up the pressure for the end time.  The Bible tells us that there will be famines and earthquakes.  After Covid-19, we will see more famines, locust swarms and also earthquakes.  But what comes after all these?  Verse 9, people will persecute us and kill Christians and for the sake of Jesus’ name, people will hate us.  This is a real and big challenge which will take place during the end time and the Lord has already warned us.

Rev 6: 7 - 8 When He opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying “Come and see.”  So I looked, and behold, a pale horse.  And the name of him who sat on it was Death, and Hades followed with him.  And power was given to them over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword, with hunger, with death, and by the beasts of the earth.
Here talks about opening the seals.  According to the Bible, before Jesus comes when the fourth seal is opened, there will be famines, swords and plagues.  Many, many people will die.  This is only the beginning.  But what follows, as recorded in verse 9, this is the exact sequence told to us by the Lord Jesus in Matthew 24.  After war, famine, earthquake, plagues, then it is persecution.  If you look at Roman history, every time something bad happened, the Roman government, the Caesars tried to put the blame on Christians whereby these Christians would be burned and killed.  They claimed it’s because Christians didn’t worship idols or their gods and that’s why all these bad things happened.  They put all the blame on the Christians.  Or maybe Christians were preaching, you have to repent, since the Roman culture sins against God and every one has to repent.  We shouldn’t be indulging in these sinful pleasures or actions.  Because Roman culture practices sexual immorality, homosexuality and many other indulgences.  So when Christians preach the gospel, they were hated and captured.  Every time something bad happened, people would blame the Christians.  That’s why during the first century, many Christians were persecuted and killed.  The Bible has warned us that this will happen again before Jesus comes.  It happened in Nan Au, Taiwan, it happened in China and Korea where our church members were persecuted.  Before Jesus comes, every one will face persecutions.  So we have to ask ourselves, if this were to happen to me, what will I choose?  Do I want to deny Christ just to live a few years longer?  Or do I want to stay faithful to Christ, and no matter what happens, I will ask Christ to help me so that I will not give up my faith?  Thank God we have yet to face that great a persecution today, but we still face a lot of pressure in our daily life to keep our faith.  We have to get ready for this challenge.  
Look at the apostles.  How did these people overcome challenges?  

Acts 5:41 So they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for His name.

Here tells us that the disciples left the Sanhedrin very happily and joyfully. If you only look at verse 41, you may think that they had just been treated to a nice meal or had just finished watching a movie.  But no, look at verse 40.  What was the treatment they received?  The disciples were beaten and were warned never ever again to speak in the name of Jesus.  Then they were released and thrown out.  If you ever preach Jesus again, the punishment will be more severe.  Think about it - if you were in this situation - what will happen to you?  Oh no, no, I don’t want to get into trouble.  Or you may start thinking, why is it that I believe in Jesus and yet I suffer so much?  But how did they overcome this challenge?  It all starts from the mentality, verse 41, they were so glad and joyful because they were so worthy to suffer for this name.  They did not say that we were so unlucky that we were the ones who were chosen to suffer for this name.  We are blessed, we are lucky, we are worthy to be suffering for this name.  Because I can work for God and I can share Christ’s sufferings.  Matthew 5:10- 11 Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.  Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for My sake.

This is the last blessings of the Beatitudes.  Blessed are you whey they revile and persecute you for the sake of heaven and righteousness, for the kingdom of heaven is yours.  How can we be so sure that the kingdom of heaven is ours?  When we keep our faith in the face of persecution.  Brothers and sisters, the persecution hasn’t come yet, but we have to be prepared.  If one day we have to make a decision, do we still want to remain faithful to Christ?  Rely on our strong faith to keep our stand.  The present challenge we are facing is considered small.  Just because of the virus we are not able to come physically to church.  But are you keeping your faith during this small challenge?  If we cannot stay faithful during this small challenge, what will happen to us when we face bigger challenges?  Even if we are stuck in our house, we have to keep praying, looking to God and keeping our worship.  

## The fifth challenge, is the challenge of false teachings  
Acts 20: 28- 30 Therefore take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood.  For I know this, that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock.  Also from among yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves.

Here Paul told the elders, the shepherds in Ephesus, because Paul knew that he wasn’t going back there again and would not have a chance to see them ever.  He warned the elders that the Holy Spirit was upon them and they were the overseers and the elders in the church, so they had to be very careful, not only for themselves but also for the sheep.  Because something will happen to the church.  
Verse 29 - what were the challenges?  There would be savage wolves coming in among them to devour the sheep.  Picture yourself among the flock of sheep, relaxing, in the meadow grazing grass, because we know that the shepherd will take care of us.  Suddenly some wolves looking for the opportune time see the broken places in the fence, they sneak in and start to devour the sheep.  Who are these savage wolves?  They are false teachers, verse 30 - Paul warned the elders that some of you will become wolves.  We think that wolves have to be from outside, people who are from other church denominations or from another faith.  Because wolves, according to Jesus in Matthew 7 - wolves are false prophets.  They are wolves clothed in sheepskins trying to devour the sheep.  So we think that they are from outside churches or from other places.  No, that’s not the case.  Wolves come from inside and this makes it all the more dangerous.  Some people were initially not wolves but turned into wolves.  They were confused by the evil spirits, preached falsehood and changed the doctrines.  The Bible has already warned us and it has already happened during the time of the apostles.  Before Jesus comes, this will happen again.  

Colossians 2:8 Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ.

These are the practices of the wolves.  False teachers from within, because they read too much on philosophy.  Philosophy is based on the mind and relies on human thinking to understand about life and spiritual matters.  If you use human logic and philosophy to try to comprehend God, you will always end up getting the wrong conclusion.  The argument is right, the logic is right, but the conclusion is wrong.  Then the whole teaching will be wrong, using some empty words, they don’t follow Christ but follow human traditions.  For example, this is the Easter long weekend.  All Christians everywhere celebrate Easter to remember the resurrection of Jesus.  They think that this is very meaningful, the resurrection of Christ is very important.  Fair enough the resurrection of Christ is very important to Christians.  The Bible also never, ever tells us to celebrate His birth on a specific day.  Jesus never told us to do so, the apostles also never told us to do so.  All these traditions never even appeared in the church until the second or third century.  These are man-made traditions.  Of course, such traditions are very obvious.  But if someone from inside changes the basic doctrines, the word of God, changes the mentality of the believers, it will be difficult to detect.  Some even break away from the church.  They don’t submit to the organization, they don’t submit to the GA, and they use the name to go everywhere to preach about True Jesus Church, but in actuality, they are not following the truth.  Recently, the International Assembly issued a letter to all the General Assemblies, there’s a breakaway group, workers who were expelled from the church because they didn’t follow the truth, didn’t follow the instructions of the church.  And they have broken away from the church.  They even go to Africa and other places to preach using True Jesus Church and they confuse the members.  They are not even from us.  But they go there to take a lot of pictures and upload videos, just to show people that they are doing this evangelical work.  But they are not from us.  Even in Canada, some did fund-raising in Canada.  Thank God, it didn’t happen in Vancouver but somewhere else in Canada.  But the church has to stop them.  They are confused by the spirit and they have already deviated from the truth.  At the end time, members have to discern between the truth and falsehood.  What is from the Holy Spirit and what is from the spirit of error.  If you don’t know how to discern, yes, you may love Jesus very much and try to do what God says but you are already following the wrong thing.  

Colossians 2:6-7 As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in Him, rooted and built up in Him and established in the faith, as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving

This is how to overcome the challenges of false teachings and false teachers.  You have to be rooted in the faith and Lord Jesus Christ.  You not only listen, you have to be rooted in the faith and build ourselves up in the teachings of the Lord Jesus.  Right now is the perfect time because everybody is stuck in the house.  Everyday, we should not only read one chapter of the Bible but maybe 20 or 30 chapters.  If you read 45 chapters a day, you can finish reading the Bible in one month.  If we are in lockdown for three months, we will be reading the whole Bible three times, thank God.  This is a blessing!  The IA has given us the links to the church websites for live stream sermons and we can listen to sermons from different countries.  However, the most important thing is to put everything into practice.  Be rooted in the faith and you will know what is right and wrong.

## The last challenge in our faith, challenge of complacency
Sometimes we slack off and become lazy. Revelation 3:14-16 And to the angel of the church of the Laodiceans, write, “These things says the Amen, the Faithful and True Witness, the Beginning of the creation of God:  For I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot.  I could wish you were cold or hot.  So then, because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will vomit you out of My mouth.

Here, the Holy Spirit is warning the church in Laodicea.  If you look at their worship, Laodicea church is very good, they lacked nothing.  But spiritually, they were in deep trouble because they had a very lukewarm faith.  What can you do with lukewarm water?  Lukewarm water can’t be used to make tea.  It’s not cold enough, so, during hot weather, it won’t refresh us.  Maybe you like lukewarm water but Jesus doesn’t like lukewarm faith.  Why doesn’t Jesus like it?  If a person has lukewarm faith, he only has the outward appearance of being a member.  But in reality, he is not seeking anything, he is not improving, he has no life inside.  This is very dangerous because he is not aware that he is not up to God’s standard.  From verse 17, the Holy Spirit pointed out the problems of the church of Laodicea.  It was poor, it was suffering hardships, it was blind and it was naked.  Brothers and sisters, this plague is a very good time for us to self-reflect about our faith.  We don’t know how long this stay at home order will last and when everybody will be able to come to the church for worship, but I think after a few months or after half a year, if things go on like this, there will be two developments among church members.  One part will think, hmm, it is not bad if I can just stay at home and listen to sermons on YouTube.  I don’t have to physically go to church.  I don’t have to waste time in traffic, I don’t have to dress up, I don’t even have to do any church work and yet I can still keep the Sabbath at home.  Sometimes I don’t even listen to the sermons on YouTube at home.  The past few months, I skipped listening a few times and nothing bad happened to me.  Some members will lose the habit of coming to church for worship.  Another group will have a different development.  They think that it so precious to be able to go to church.  Jesus is coming very soon.  This plague is only the beginning of the end.  More tribulations will come and I have to build up a relationship with Jesus Christ.  I have to be more vigilant.  

I believe this plague will only test members.  And there are two kinds of developments.  Some will become lukewarm, more lukewarm than before.  But some will wake up.  And that is the biggest challenge.  Are you ready for that challenge?

----
****


